---
order: 10
type: issue
title: Campaign Finance and Electoral Reform
subtitle: Protecting and strengthening our democracy 
path: campaign-finance
---

## Protecting and strengthening our democracy

At the root of our nation's political challenges are three systemic issues that
we must address to protect and strengthen our democracy so that we can put
government back in the hands of the people:

### Campaign finance reform

In Congress, Alex will champion reforms to reduce the influence of money in
politics so we can put the emphasis back on the voters and get government back
to working on people-centered, community-focused solutions.

The enormous influence of money in politics erodes the integrity of the
democratic process both by unduly influencing policy decisions and by giving
large corporations and the richest Americans undue influence over our country.
These effects reduce citizens' confidence in our government.

To mitigate these effects, we should take a comprehensive approach that closes
the myriad loopholes that special interests and the ultra-wealthy have created
to evade the spirit of campaign finance limits, including lobbying, Super PACs,
independent expenditures, and candidate spending. Alex will fight to overturn
the disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision and address the extreme
influence of money in politics by supporting a constitutional amendment that
reins in outside spending and allows states and Congress to enforce campaign
finance laws appropriately.

This amendment should also include a mechanism to allow Congress to cap
candidate self-financing. We have seen too many candidates spend too much of
their own money to buy elections that should instead be contested on the
strength of policy ideas and relevant experience. These self-contributions
should be capped similarly to how we limit other campaign contributions.

In addition, Alex supports the DISCLOSE Act, which would require "dark money"
groups to disclose their donors and spending when they engage in political
activity of any kind. We must also ensure that reforms do not create loopholes,
a challenge that has limited past reform efforts.

### Gerrymandering

Texas's 7th Congressional District is a prime example of the arbitrary and
inequitable way that our political boundaries are drawn in Texas, with career
politicians seeking to maximize their political power at the expense of Texas
voters.

When the goal of gerrymandering is to benefit the politicians drawing the map,
elected officials represent disjointed communities. Independent redistricting
commissions should fairly draw congressional and legislative maps with the goal
of empowering voters, not politicians.

Alex will always be an objective voice seeking solutions that benefit our
democracy, not incumbent politicians or the party in power.

### Voting rights

Alex will always stand up for voting rights and will fight for solutions that
enable all eligible Americans to cast their ballot for their candidate of
choice.

Every eligible American should be able to exercise their right to cast their
ballot and have a say in the future of our country. We have seen repeated
attempts to disenfranchise voters by making it harder for certain groups of
Americans to vote. This cynical approach betrays our values as a democracy and
makes it more difficult to craft effective policy solutions that solve real
problems.

Earlier this year, a federal judge ruled that Texas's voter ID law was designed
to discriminate against lower-income and minority voters, instead of its claimed
purpose of preventing voter fraud. We must fight against these types of
dangerous efforts to discourage and exclude voters.

Alex is also a proponent of states' expanding early voting hours and polling
locations and instituting automatic voter registration.
