---
type: issue
title: Early Childhood
subtitle: Providing high-quality care from the start
path: earlychildhood
---

## Providing high-quality care from the start

As a new father and as the husband of a leading expert in early childhood
development and education, Alex thinks about this issue every day. He believes
that every child needs access to effective early childhood education, beginning
at birth. He has watched his own infant daughter’s face light up as her brain
develops at an incredibly rapid pace. Learning begins at birth, and all children
need a nurturing and stimulating environment from the start.

Research shows that those who experience quality care and learning achieve
better education, health, social, and economic outcomes throughout their lives.
Children, families, and society as a whole are all better off as a result.
Simply put, investing in our youngest children is a rare opportunity that is at
once the right investment morally, economically, and for the competitive
well-being of our nation. Congress can support the various systems that reach
families of young children when they are in the most vulnerable financial time,
balancing astronomically high childcare costs with budding careers.

### Paid family leave

When so much of their child’s development is at stake in the earliest months,
parents need time to bond with their babies and support their learning from the
start. Furthermore, families need choices in this critical period. The option to
stay home with an infant should be available alongside access to high-quality,
affordable childcare so children can thrive while both parents have the
opportunity to pursue their desired careers.

As a new father, Alex has recently taken part in the challenging but beautiful
and rewarding period shortly after the birth of a child. This personal
experience has highlighted the deeply disappointing fact that the U.S. is the
only developed nation in the world without a federal paid family leave program.
Alex would support federal legislation that would create a nationwide insurance
program offering up to 12 weeks of parental leave with at least partial pay.
Paid family leave benefits our families, our children, and our economy, while
improving worker retention and thus reducing turnover costs for employers. We
can no longer afford to lag behind the rest of the world on this important
issue.

### High-quality, affordable childcare and preschool

Quality childcare is important for children, who benefit from strong early
learning experiences. It also enables more Americans to readily reenter our
workforce after the birth of their child, improving family economic well-being
and our nation’s competitiveness. Too many families lack access to child care,
Head Start or preschool, and too many children attend early childhood programs
that are lacking in quality and do not lay a strong foundation for future
learning.

Congress should focus on improving both access and quality by expanding and
making the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit refundable. This change should be
paired with quality improvement initiatives, such as the preschool development
block grants and quality rating systems, as well as technical assistance for
childcare providers, so that our children can benefit from stimulating learning
environments from the start.

### Community support for parents

New parents need support in their communities to make sure they have the
information they want and need to nurture and nourish their young learners.
Voluntary home visiting programs are proven to be one of the most effective
interventions for improving family and child outcomes by supporting parents to
be the best advocate for their child’s learning and development in the early
years.

Congress should continue to support proven programs like these, in addition to
experimenting with new, lower-cost ways to reach families at pediatric visits
and in other relevant contexts during their children’s earliest years
