---
order: 4
title: Immigration
subtitle: Welcoming and valuing immigrants
path: immigration
type: issue
cardType: horizontal
---

## Welcoming and valuing immigrants

Since our nation’s founding, we have welcomed immigrants and helped integrate
them into our nation while enabling them to enrich our country with the customs
and cultures of their prior homes. Alex will work tirelessly to maintain the
values of freedom, diversity, and unity that our nation was founded upon. As the
son of an immigrant one side of his family and a fourth-generation Texan on the
other—and as someone who has worked with immigrant communities directly—Alex
recognizes the value that immigrants contribute to our economic, cultural, and
educational fabric in Houston and across the country.

It is no secret that our immigration system is broken. Alex rejects President
Trump’s attempt to bar entire groups of people seeking better opportunities for
themselves and their families from resettling in the United States based on
arbitrary standards such as religion or nationality.

Alex has spent years advocating for immigrants and connecting them to legal
resources for themselves and their families as well as capital and technical
assistance for those who want to start or grow small businesses. In addition, he
led the Welcoming Houston Task Force, a citywide initiative that aims to make
our community more welcoming to immigrant Houstonians to the benefit of everyone
in the region. In Congress, Alex will fight for these ideals while representing
one of the country’s most diverse cities.

We cannot take the economic impact of immigrants lightly. In recent years,
nearly half of all Fortune 500 companies have been founded by immigrants or
their children. Texas’s 7th Congressional District boasts more than 11,000
immigrant entrepreneurs. Immigrants in the district pay $2 billion in taxes and
have a total spending power of more than $6 billion.

Most importantly, we should keep families together and make our communities
safer. We must find ways to help immigrant children learn English, receive an
education, and have access to a path to citizenship. We should also ensure that
immigrants have stable family lives rather than a cloud of uncertainty hanging
over them because of the constant threat of deportation for a friend or family
member who has been a productive and upstanding member of society. In doing so,
we’ll also create safer communities, making it easier for law enforcement to do
its job, since immigrants will feel comfortable reporting crimes and working as
partners with law enforcement.

We’ve seen far too many attempts to use fear to drive the immigration debate. In
a changing economy and a changing world, we must develop smart policies that
leverage immigration as a positive catalyst for economic growth rather than a
threat, while letting law enforcement continue their hard work of focusing on
keeping communities safe.
