---
order: 3
title: Transportation and Infrastructure
path: infrastructure
buttonTitle: Infrastructure
subtitle: Developing forard-looking transportation and other infrastructure
type: issue
---

## Developing forward-looking transportation and other infrastructure

We need infrastructure that creates more transportation choices for residents as
our region grows. This investment will create jobs, bolster our regional
economy, increase daily productivity, and improve quality of life. Houstonians
know that we need to get our people to work on time and can move the goods we
produce here in Houston out to the rest of the world. Houstonians want
transportation options, a trend that will only increase as more young people
return or move to Houston.

In Congress, Alex will push for forward-looking investments in transportation,
as well as other infrastructure plans that create the kind of system that will
benefit the Houston area throughout the 21st century. He will also work to make
sure that we are doing everything we can from the federal level to address
flooding issues in the region.

### Increasing transportation options

The key to a transportation system that enhances quality of life and economic
productivity is choice. Greater pedestrian, biking, and transit infrastructure
creates opportunities for better health in our community while connecting people
to education, jobs, healthcare, and the cultural richness our city offers.

A strong, multi-modal transportation network that builds upon our successful
light rail, high-occupancy vehicle lane, park-and-ride, and bus-related
investments can provide Houstonians the mobility options they need while
relieving some of the burden of car ownership and traffic for working families.

### Generating local infrastructure solutions

Our transportation system can be a means for creating prosperity in our
community, not an end unto itself. When done right, transportation investments
can create jobs and opportunity in the short term while simultaneously paying
for themselves and making our city, and our nation, financially stronger in the
process. Alex will fight for not only our fair share of transportation funding,
but also local control over how that money is spent.

The gas tax, traditionally the main revenue source for the federal
transportation program, no longer comes close to paying for highway
expenditures. In recent years, large transfers of general tax dollars have been
necessary to keep the Highway Trust Fund afloat. Despite these infusions, Texans
send more gas tax money to Washington than it gets back in transportation
funding, an unfair and unreasonable outcome for a growing state with acute
mobility needs. This poorly serves Texas families that pay their fair share and
is an issue Alex will address head-on in Congress.

The federal government has an important role in funding the maintenance of the
interstate highway system. However, Washington is not the right place to make
decisions about how Houstonians move around our region. We should focus on
infrastructure maintenance and on the development of other modes of
transportation here at home so that the next generation of Houstonians can get
around Houston more quickly and conveniently.

In addition to transportation issues, Alex is committed to addressing flooding
challenges. As the representative for TX-07, Alex will convene a task force of
flooding victims and experts to develop solutions for improving our reservoir
and drainage systems and devise additional improvements so that we can stop the
disturbing trend of residents' lives being upended by major floods in the area.
