---
order: 5
type: issue
title: Women's Health
subtitle: Protecting choice and access to care
path: womenshealth
---

## Protecting choice and access to care

Alex's strong belief is that decisions about women’s health should be between
women and their physicians. Our government should not encroach upon women's
decisions about their health and their families. Alex takes seriously the
importance of access to affordable, high-quality healthcare for all women. In
Congress, he will fight for policies that allow women to have the freedom to
make their own healthcare choices.

### Protective reproductive rights

Alex supports the right of women to make their own healthcare decisions without
government interference. In Congress, he will work to protect women's right to
choose and their access to obstetric care and affordable birth control. Alex
will also fight lawmakers' recent efforts to weaken coverage for maternity care
and no-cost contraception offered under the Affordable Care Act.

### Increasing funding for preventive health and family planning services

Alex will work to increase funding for the federal Title X program, which
ensures access to family planning and preventive health services. Since the
Texas Legislature slashed funding for family planning services in 2011, a
quarter of the state’s family planning clinics have been forced to close. As a
result, countless Texas women have lost access to affordable birth control and
essential preventive services like cervical and breast cancer screenings. Alex
will resist efforts to defund family planning programs so that all women have
access to vital family planning and preventive health services.

### Reducing maternal mortality

Texas has the highest maternal mortality rate in the country, and the United
States has the worst maternal mortality rate among developed nations. Alex will
lead efforts to provide federal support for state efforts to reduce maternal
mortality rates and promote the exchange of national data on maternal mortality.
We must do more to reduce the rate of pregnancy-related deaths and ensure access
to prenatal care for all women.
